Dear Ms. Pham Thi Hien, Dharma name Tam Chieu
Han Quan, from the perspective
of a Buddhist practitioner who has practiced and applied it
in life, she
shares some questions that Buddhists
are facing. Specifically,
when someone is already a Buddhist and practices at
a temple, but after a while they stop studying
and follow the teachings and guidance of the
monks, they go to another temple to practice
and speak ill of the monks at their old temple and
criticize fellow practitioners, causing the Buddhists there to lose
faith in the Three Jewels. Is that person's
practice of Buddhism correct? Will they receive blessings or karmic retribution? Respectfully, to the teacher and to the entire congregation, there is no obligation
for us Buddhists to practice anywhere. Because
practicing Buddhism means we
aspire to understand cause and effect, and to understand the
teachings of the Buddha. First and foremost, when
we go to practice Buddhism, we must
have that mindset. The question
is, when we are practicing
at one temple and then go to another temple
...  What are the reasons why we go from one temple
to another and receive blessings without suffering
negative consequences, and what are the reasons why we go from
one temple to another and suffer negative consequences
without receiving
blessings? For example, if there is
no monk teaching the Dharma in a
place, we can leave that temple
to find one.
Because when we practice Buddhism, we
must go through the stages of listening, studying, and practicing—that is,
listening, learning, contemplating, and practicing—only then will
we achieve results. So, if there
is no monk to teach
us, we must go to a temple where there is one. It's
not just about the temple itself, but the
temple must have a monk.
If the temple already has a monk,
we listen to what the monk teaches and ignore what he teaches. In
practicing for liberation,
we must be equanimous; that is,
we must understand what we are liberated from and what
we need to be liberated from.
Because we lack understanding,
we have thoughts and words that...
Following
folk traditions means that one person tells another, and that
person tells another, and we
simply live according to folk experience.
When the Buddha was born,
he taught us about cause and
effect. Evil thoughts, evil words, and
evil deeds will have evil consequences, while good
thoughts, good words, and good deeds
will have good consequences. Our suffering
is due to the evil consequences we experience, which
stem from evil thoughts, words, and
deeds. Therefore, we come to
Buddhism to learn what constitutes good thoughts,
good words, and
good deeds, so that
we may receive blessings. Once we
understand this, we will
find a teacher who
speaks and acts with
kindness and teaches us good things. This means
teaching us not to kill
and the consequences of killing, not to steal and the blessings of not stealing, not to lie and the consequences of lying
and the blessings of not lying,
not to commit adultery
and the blessings of not stealing.  Not
committing adultery brings blessings, and not being addicted to
drugs brings good fortune.
Such a teacher can be a teacher for
us Buddhists and teach us to
practice. Furthermore, a teacher without attachment or preconceived notions is someone who is
open to learning and expanding their
knowledge, so that we Buddhists can seek out and
learn more from good teachers and
good friends. This means the teacher is
practicing selflessness, not acting for
their own ego. The teacher sacrifices everything for the
disciples they have a connection with. With
such teachers, we must
serve, learn from, and support them so that
their Dharma propagation can
flourish. This means supporting the Buddha, upholding the Dharma, and
upholding the Sangha. The Sangha means that
our virtues are increased,
called the Higher Mind, the Higher
Precepts, and the Higher
Will. As a disciple of the teacher,
we practice daily, and we see
our minds increasing, meaning our minds become virtuous and
wholesome.  We are becoming more and
more exemplary in our practice. For example, regarding the precept against killing,
from the beginning we refrain from killing human beings,
then gradually we refrain from
killing large animals, and so on, until
death. For example, before death, we may
not kill any animal at all. That is already a higher level of spiritual attainment. Then, through
this practice, when we uphold the
Three Jewels, we receive blessings
in this life and blessings in the
next.
We must consider whether we have
such a teacher. If we have
such a teacher and then abandon them, we
know that we are leaving a
good place for a bad one. In Buddhism, it's
called going from light to darkness. This means that
here, there is the Buddha's teachings, there is a
teacher to guide us, to help us
refine our character, to receive
blessings, and then we leave that teacher to
go to another. If we
leave that teacher and go to a
teacher who is better and teaches us
better, that is still not
right because we are still disciples of the Buddha.
So, since my teacher has taught me all five precepts, if there is a better teacher,
I ask permission and go to both places.
That's the right thing to do because I want to go to a
new place where I can make new friends at that
temple. That friend is more diligent in their practice, and I
will learn more. Because I
learn more, I will be able to learn more from my
teacher. So I ask
my teacher's permission to go to both places. It's like
in our hometown, if there are
talented students, we send them to study
abroad, and then they return to serve their hometown.
For example, in this village, if
there is a person working in the central government, they will
definitely come back to
build temples and
roads in their hometown. We
must always remember our roots.
So, when a
Buddhist does that, they
have blessings and merit, and they become the
right hand of the teacher, spreading the
Dharma and bringing the Dharma to
their hometown. Those who study far away will
learn more.  Many
good Buddhists, when they return, will
encourage novice Buddhists in
rural villages who know nothing about Buddhism to learn how to participate in Buddhist
ceremonies and contribute to the temple. They will also
help these
Buddhists gain knowledge that allows them to practice and
receive blessings and benefits.
Such Buddhists are diligent.
Buddhists bring benefits to themselves and to
many others. Where
the teacher has already taught everything fully, some
Buddhists leave and go to a
temple where they are not allowed to practice the
Dharma or receive instruction, and then return to speak ill of
their teacher. Speaking ill of a teacher is speaking untruthfully. Speaking
truthfully is not speaking ill of a teacher.
For example, if a teacher is
wholeheartedly dedicated to the people, some might say, "The teacher only cares about
money. He works day and night for the
people, everything for the people. Although the
people's contributions are too little, the
teacher cannot provide
much financial assistance. For example, today's
Vu La ceremony requires
money, but this money comes from the people's
contributions. The teachers don't need it."  When we have to work, the money comes
from the people's contributions, so the monks will
give it away to the people. The
flowers pinned to their clothes are also from the people's
contributions. The water for everyone to drink is
also from the people's contributions. This
money is also dedicated to blessings, praying for
peace for their families and
ancestors. The money from
the monks is used to buy tarpaulins.
All the money is returned to the
world. As for the monks themselves, they have no
heirs, meaning they don't need to
accumulate money for themselves. The
monks eat, some eat one
vegetarian meal, others eat two or three, which is nothing
compared to the
effort they put into serving the people.
Buddhists should understand this.
Serving the Three Jewels
is serving
one's own merit. The money we give to
the little children who come here to
learn about morality is also
from the contributions of all the
previous generations, their grandparents and parents. That's also the money
of the elders, isn't it? It's not that the monks
have money, but they accumulate it.  The monk accumulates
money from the pure hearts of
people, and then uses that money
to spread the pure Dharma of the Buddhas
to generations, from the elderly to the young, so that they can
benefit. So
today, I also want to tell you all so that you
know where your money goes. Your money is used
to educate yourselves and
future generations in morality through the Buddha's teachings.
Your money doesn't go anywhere.
There is such a dedicated monk in a Laotian temple, and
if we speak ill of him,
betray his kindness with a
personal opinion without a thorough understanding,
we will suffer the consequences.
What kind of suffering is it when you do
good deeds for others and they
don't acknowledge it, or when you do good deeds
for others and they spread rumors and falsely
accuse you of doing
evil? That is the karmic consequence. Through
this sharing, I also hope that
Buddhist practitioners, wherever they practice,
must be able to discern whether their practice is right or
wrong. If it is wrong, they are allowed to leave and
find another teacher to learn the Dharma, but there is no such thing as that.  If I have made
any mistakes with the teacher, I will respectfully say, "
Teacher, I ask permission to leave
this place and practice elsewhere." But
with the teacher, I will still maintain a respectful attitude,
but what I have learned is not
satisfactory for me. That's enough.
We don't necessarily need to
speak ill of others. For example, a student
takes the entrance exam for Medical University,
Polytechnic University, or Teacher Training University. If it's
not suitable for one university, they go to
another. It's the same in society; there
are good and bad things. When
you leave a bad place, you feel
fortunate. But bad things still exist in
society; you don't need to say they are bad. So, regarding the
Lao teacher who taught incorrectly, we
don't need to say it; it's still incorrect.
And when you are not following the correct path,
you don't need to say it. Regarding
this particular teacher, we can say, "In
my previous place of practice, there were things that were not
correct like this, like this, like that. There was
still killing, harming
lives, not teaching me the correct Dharma.
So I left and moved on, but also because of
that teacher." Although not...  The Dharma
is the main thing, but I also benefited from it, and I'm
still grateful, not that I don't
thank it. Through this, I also hope that all
Buddhists, from today onwards, will reflect on the
place where they are practicing, on the teacher they
are studying with, on the teacher's moral conduct, on what the
teacher teaches,
and on how they will serve. Regarding
further learning, the teacher doesn't forbid it,
but you must bring
that knowledge back to the teacher, not
surpass the teacher and
teach others. Instead, you should
respectfully ask the teacher, "I have learned something new here, and I
ask the teacher to allow me to
share it with the community." For example,
at the village temple, if the elders argue, and
you go to another place to practice, you do
n't see any arguing. You respectfully ask the teacher, "
I have a story like this, like
this, like this: when we have conflicts, people behave
like this, so I respectfully ask the teacher, '
Teacher, please allow me to share it with
my fellow practitioners so that I can guide them to the
temple and resolve the issue.'"  It is the right thing to do
for them to be happy and harmonious together when they
go to the temple. If there is joy, then the
teacher will certainly be very happy because in
Buddhism, teachers who become monks must be like
parents, wishing for their children to
progress, wishing for siblings to be
harmonious with each other, wishing for siblings to guide
each other to move forward. Yes, I respectfully
ask the teacher, I beg
[music]
ho